=for stopwords
AES WebAuth arg decrypt gc -hv keyring

=head1 NAME

wa_keyring - WebAuth keyring manipulation tool

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<wa_keyring> [B<-hv>] B<-f> I<file> I<command> [I<arg> ...]

B<wa_keyring> B<-f> I<keyring> add I<valid-after>

B<wa_keyring> B<-f> I<keyring> gc I<oldest-valid-after-to-keep>

B<wa_keyring> B<-f> I<keyring> list

B<wa_keyring> B<-f> I<keyring> remove I<id>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<wa_keyring> is a command line tool to manage WebAuth key ring files,
which contain the private AES keys used by mod_webauth and mod_webkdc.  It
supports the following individual commands:

=over 4

=item add I<valid-after>

Adds a new key to the key ring.  I<valid-after> uses the format: 

    nnnn[s|m|h|d|w]

to indicate a time relative to the current time. The units for the time
are specified by appending a single letter.  That letter can be any of s,
m, h, d, or w, which correspond to seconds, minutes, hours, days, and
weeks respectively.

For example: 10d is 10 days from the current time, and -60d is 60 days
before the current time.

=item gc I<oldest-valid-after-to-keep>

Garbage collects (removes) old keys on the key ring.  Any keys with a
I<valid-after> date older then the specified time will be removed from the
key ring.

The format for I<oldest-valid-after-to-keep> is the same as I<valid-after>
from the add command.  Note that this means that times given to the gc
command should generally be negative, to remove keys that have expired in
the past.

=item list

Lists all the keys in the key ring.  By default, a brief listing is
used, but a verbose listing can be requested with the B<-v> option.

The following fields are present in a short listing:

=over 4

=item B<id> 

The index/position of the key in the key ring.

=item B<Created>

The date the key was created.

=item B<Valid after> 

The date at which the key becomes valid (in other words, the point at
which the WebAuth server will start using it to encrypt and decrypt new
data).

=item B<Fingerprint> 

The MD5 digest of the key data.  Used to compare keys in two key rings.

=back 

The following fields are present in the long listing:

=over 4

=item B<Key-Id> 

The index/position of the key in the key ring.

=item B<Created>

The date the key was created.

=item B<Valid-After> 

The date at which the key becomes valid (in other words, the point at
which the WebAuth server will start using it to encrypt and decrypt new
data).

=item B<Key-Type> 

The type of key.  Currently, AES is the only supported key type.

=item B<Key-Size> 

Length in bytes of the key.

=item B<Fingerprint> 

The MD5 digest of the key data. Used to compare keys in two key rings.

=back 

=item remove I<id>

Remove the key with ID I<id> from the key ring.

=back

For any of the commands that change the keyring, B<wa_keyring> must have
write access to the directory containing the keyring, since keyrings are
updated by writing out the new file to a separate name and then atomically
replacing the file.

Ownership (user and group) of the existing keyring file will be preserved
if possible without overwriting the existing file.  Permissions will also
be preserved, with the exception that permissions will not be copied to
the new file if the old file was group-readable or group-writable and
setting the group ownership failed.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Add a key to the keyring valid as of the current time:

    wa_keyring -f keyring add 0d

Add a key to the keyring that will be valid three days from now:

    wa_keyring -f keyring add 3d

Remove keys from the key ring that became invalid more than 90 days ago:

    wa_keyring -f keyring gc -90d

Remove the first key in the keyring.

    wa_keyring -f keyring remove 0

Display a verbose listing of all of the keys in the key ring:

    wa_keyring -f keyring -v list

Note that a WebAuth server will normally manage its keyring file by
itself, and B<wa_keyring> is normally only used for debugging purposes.
However, if you are setting up a load-balanced pool of servers that need
to all share the same keys, turn off automatic keyring handling by putting
the line:

    WebAuthKeyringAutoUpdate off

to your Apache configuration, running a script periodically from cron on
one server that does something like:

    wa_keyring -f keyring gc -90d
    wa_keyring -f keyring add 2d

and then copying (in a secure manner!) the new keyring file to all of the
other servers.

=head1 AUTHOR

Roland Schemers <schemers@stanford.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2002, 2004, 2005, 2014 The Board of Trustees of the Leland
Stanford Junior University

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and
this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.

=cut
